All right, so in this lesson, I'd like to fix a bug that we intentionally added to our app a really
long time ago.
So here I am on the job results page, and if I display the sub now by signing in, you may recall we
have the section where we display the number of jobs matched and that is totally fine.
This is how things should work on our job results page.
Even though this number is hardcoded will make it dynamic later on.
The issue is what happens when we navigate to our home page?
When we navigate to our home page.
Our root root.
We still have this information present and it should only appear on the jobs page.
So this is a piece of information that is dependent on the route that we are on.
Right.
We talked earlier about how we can use information from the root to determine which part of the view
renders.
This is a perfect example.
We should only render this when we are on this root.
So what I'd like to do is fix this issue.
And in addition to that, I'd like to follow a TDD approach, test driven development.
So we're going to try to write our tests first and then come up with the solution.
So let's do a quick review of what our code currently looks like.
So I'm going to open up my sub nav component and I'm also going to open up my sub nav test file sub
navigate test.
Yes.
And let me drag it here to the right hand side.
So here, the way we currently built this out is we have a piece of data that we called on job results
page and we just needed something to be the placeholder for our eventual implementation.
And we're using that Boolean value here for this VFR directive.
And it says if we're on the job results page, then we should render that font awesome icon, the magnifying
glass and the number of jobs matched.
The problem, of course, is that our data is always starting off as true, so there's no way to invert
it or disable it.
And that's why our jobs is appearing on every single root in our app, and we wrote our tests based
on this implementation.
So we have two tests in our in our test file.
It displays the job count when the user is on the job page and when the user is not on the job page,
it does not display the job count.
And the way we were able to do two tests is by configuring the data in our component mount.
And we've talked about this idea before that this is not really an ideal strategy because it knows a
lot about the details of the implementation.
So I think that the the structure of these two tests is still good.
These are the two conditions that we want to test for.
And the basic logic of our VRF is still good.
But of course we need this idea of being on the job results page or not.
Not to come from our data, but to come from a computed property that is going to look at our route.
Now, you may recall that within every component in our app, we have access to our route via the this
dot dollar sign root property.
So I have access to that anywhere in my component.
And of course, that is a complex object that Vue router is going to give to us.
And so the question I have for you from a TDD perspective is do we need to add Vue router to our test
in order to test that functionality?
And I would argue that we do not.
We just need an object that can play the role of a root.
So just to reiterate, let me dive into the code right here.
If we were to console.log the value of this dot root, as we did earlier in the course in our browser,
we would see that it is a really, really complex object with something like ten different properties.
There's path, there's name, there's a whole bunch of other things.
But for the purposes of our test, we don't need the real life object.
We just need an object that is close enough that can play the role.
It's the exact same principle as what we do when we shallow mount a component and we replace the child
components with something lighter.
It's the same principle here.
We don't need a real root object with all of its complexity.
We just need an object that has the properties that we care about.
And they can play the role of a round object and allow us to actually separate our tests from the exact
Vue router implementation.
So we don't have to drag that complexity into our into our tests.
So the property that we're going to care about on that root object is called name.
Okay.
And just to remind you, if I go to my router index Doug's file, whenever we create roots, we give
each root a name and that name is available on the dollar sign root object in in every component.
So what we basically want to check is if the name is equal to job results, we know we're on the job
results path or the job results page and that's when we want to render the job count.
Otherwise, we do not.
So if we have an object right here in our tests and we give it a name property, that is what we're
looking for.
That object with a name property is all we need in order to test the components, interact.
You with the root property.
All right, so I'm going to create an object here.
I'm going to give it a name, property of job results.
So I'm going to match the exact same name I have right here.
And I'm going to assign this to a constant called dollar sign root.
All right.
Let me talk a little bit more about what we're trying to do here.
So we have this object that we have assigned to DocuSign Route.
It has a single name property.
What I want to do is I want this sub nav component when it accesses the dollar root property instead
of having the real object that Vue router will provide in the real world.
I want it to access this object instead for several reasons.
One is we can decouple our component from your router.
We don't have to figure out how to incorporate view router into our tests because our tests don't know
about the router.
Remember, each component is mounted in isolation, so it doesn't know the global details of the new
app.
It doesn't know that Vue router has been configured in main bags.
It's just rendering a sub nav component so it knows nothing about the root property or the router property,
but we are going to eventually be accessing those properties in our implementation to get root information.
So we need something to play the role of that property.
We need a substitute and that is what I'm trying to create here.
This is going to be the object that we're going to access when we do this that dollars say dollar sign
root in our implementation.
Right?
So we've created that object above, but how do we actually configure it so that when we access dollar
sign root in our implementation, the tests will replace that with this?
Well, in order to do that, we have to add an additional property to our global object right here and
that property is going to be MOX.
So I'm going to declare that property and I'm going to set it equal to a JavaScript object.
The way that marks work is the exact same way that Stubs work, except stubs are focused on child components,
while mocks are focused on global injections.
And when I mean global injections, I mean properties that the component is going to have access to
that are going to be defined on it from some kind of global implementation.
So for example, we added Vue router globally to our app and that automatically adds a dollar sign root
and a dollar sign router property.
So for those kinds of global properties that are that are now immediately available, this in this object
is where we can mark them out.
And when I use the word mock them out, what I mean is replace them with a substitute.
And of course the goal is for that substitute to be a more lighter weight version of the real object
so we can test in isolation with a much simpler scope.
So what I want to do is whenever the component accesses dollar sign that root, I want to give it an
object to replace the real world view router.
Otherwise if we use this to dollar sign root in my component, our test is not going to know what that
is referencing.
What is that object supposed to be?
What is that property equal to?
So of course I want to make this dollar sign root property equal to the root object that I've defined
above.
And of course if you're familiar with ESX, you know that when you have a property and a value that
is equal, we can just consolidate this to be just that.
Okay.
So we are going to say to this component or more specifically to our test, when you mount the sub nav
component, if for any reason the user accesses or the implementation accesses, this the dollar sign
out.
Don't use the real life implementation because the test knows nothing about it.
Use this sample object that we've provided.
So of course this sample object should resemble the API or the interface of the real Vue router route
object.
And that root object does have a name property.
So we can't just choose some arbitrary property here.
We do have to match the real world implementation, but it doesn't have to be the actual real world
object.
It has to be something that is close enough that it can perform the function and do the responsibility
of the real world object without being the real world thing.
And thus our tests are oblivious to view router.
They don't care.
They just care about a property existing that gives them access to an object that they can use.
All right.
So we're going to follow this exact same approach for the test below.
So I'm going to copy this code below.
But of course, the difference here is this test is for when the user is not on the job page, it does
not display the job count.
So I need to give it a root name that is not equal to the job results page.
Right?
So for example, if I go into my router index that yes, let's say the user is on the home view and
that root name is going to be home.
So let's say the user is on the home root and then I'm going to configure that root within my component
by again providing the max property.
So Max set it equal to an object and I want to overwrite my this dollar sign root property with the
root object above.
And that's what we're going to do here.
All right.
So we've set that up.
We have two different objects playing the role.
And in one circumstance, if we have the right name, then we should render the job results.
And in the other circumstance, we should not.
So that allows us to do is to remove our former data implementation because we're not going to be relying
on data any longer.
We don't care about that.
And even though again, we haven't created this code in our actual implementation, that's fine.
That's the whole point of TDD is we're writing things as they should be, as we want them to be, and
then we write the solution.
So we're going to get rid of that data reference.
We're going to get rid of that data reference.
Here.
And now we can run our tests and they should, of course, predictably fail.
So right here.
I'm going to do NPM run, test, colon, watch.
We're going to start running our tests and they should fail.
And of course they do fail because it's not able to find the job count reference on some component.
So let's come back to our implementation and let's remove data fully.
So again, matching the implementation to what our test expectations are.
So now we still have our failure.
So now we need to essentially configure our component to read the root object, get the name, and use
that to determine whether we should render that section of the component.
So this is going to be a computed property.
The reason it's going to be a computed property is because it is derived or dependent on another piece
of data.
And that other piece of data is whatever route we happen to be on.
And I'm going to give this method a name of on job results page, the exact same thing that this the
if directive is expecting it to be called.
So I'm going to copy that right here.
I'm going to make that a method.
And of course, because we're using AVF directive, this method has to return a boolean.
True.
If we are on the job results page and false if we are not.
So how do we determine where we are?
Well, what I can do is access the dollar sign root property.
In the real world, we're going to get the real root object from your router.
In our tests, we're going to get this object instead.
And on that object we have a name property right in the real world and in our tests.
And when is the user on the job results page?
When the name property is equal to job results.
So right here, I'm going to set this equal to job results.
Compare the quality of those strings and return this value.
So if we are on the job results route, this will evaluate to true and we are going to render this detail.
If we are on any other route, we're going to get a false.
This computed property will evaluate to false, which means we're going to have false right here and
we're not going to render the number of jobs matched.
Our tests pass, which is great.
Our tests don't know about the details of your router.
That's great.
All they know about is we need some kind of object with a name property.
Any object will do.
And finally, if we go to our browser.
Let's refresh.
We are on the job results page, so we do expect to see this and that is fantastic.
But when we navigate to our home page, perfect, we still have our sub nav.
But that conditional rendering of the number of jobs matched is now gone, which is exactly what we
expect.
And when we navigate back to jobs.
You'll notice that our route changes are computed property reevaluates.
It checks the name of that route.
It gets another match, it gets another true because we are on the job results route.
So it renders that belief and renders the number of jobs matched.
So as we navigate back and forth, we have the exact result that we expect from page to page.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you next one.